Our sign up component is looking pretty good.
But as I mentioned at the end of the last video, we've got some logic inside of here that we're probably
going to end up duplicating across many other components.
So, for example, we've got some logic inside of here to make request.
We then handle that request in some way.
If something goes wrong with the request, we set some errors and if we get any errors, we then render
them out in this kind of nicely formatted list right here.
So all this stuff is probably going to be duplicated across many different components.
And naturally, rather than duplicating this everywhere, I think would be kind of handy if we try to
make it a little bit more reusable in nature.
So here's what I would like to do.
I want to try to create a new custom hook that we will call use request.
The inputs to this user request hook are going to be where we want to make a request to.
So the URL, the method of the request.
So is it a get request, put post patch, whatever else, and then the body of the request or the information
is send along if the request supports that.
So for example, a put patch or post would all include a body, but a get request would not include
a body.
So we're going to provide those as inputs to this user request hook that we're going to put together.
Then the output from this user request hook will be two things.
First off, it will be some function to actually execute the request.
And we'll also have some heirs thing coming out as well.
And this air is variable is going to be some pre rendered block of x that contains all the errors that
might have occurred while we actually executed that request.
Now, something that's going to be kind of challenging about this user request hook, we're going to
be getting a function to run the request and some errors variable out at the exact same time.
Errors by default is going to be null or have a value of null until we actually execute the request
and something goes wrong with it.
Now that might not make any sense right now, so let's just start to write this thing out and I think
you'll get a good sense of what's going on rather quickly.
Okay.
So I'm going to flip back over.
Inside my client directory, I'm going to make a new folder called Hooks.
And then inside there I'll make a new file of use request JS.
Then inside of here at the very top, I'm going to import Axios from Axios and I'm going to import the
used state hook.
From React.
Then after that, I'm going to create the hook.
So I want the inputs.
This thing, like I just said, to be the URL that we want to make the request to the method and the
body.
So I'm going to put in a ul a method and the body.
Then inside of here, we're going to create some errors, piece of state.
So this will be some piece of state that's going to store some JSX inside of it.
By default, it will have a value of null until something goes wrong with the request.
Then eventually we're going to make sure that we return that error thing.
We're also going to create a function called due request that's going to actually execute the request
itself.
Okay.
So I'm going to create some piece of state that I will call Ayres.
I'm also going to.
Create that function of do request.
And then finally down here, without worrying about putting any implementation in for due request just
yet, I'm going to make sure that I return return both due request and errors.
I can follow the usual convention of React hooks by returning an array with due request and errors inside
of it.
But I think in this case it might make a little bit more sense to just use an object rather than kind
of rely upon these values being ordered in some particular way.
Okay.
So now we're going to put together some implementation side of do requests to actually run the request
itself.
In other words, we're going to write out pretty much exactly what you see right here in this tricky
block.
So inside of here, I'm going to put together a try.
Catch.
I'm going to write out the actual request making logic.
So I'm going to take the response from await Axios.
And remember, we don't necessarily know ahead of time exactly what method or whether we want to make
a git, a post or a patch or whatever else.
So we can't really write get here or dot post or whatever else.
Instead, we're going to do a lookup on this Axios object using method right here.
So method has to be equal to.
I'm going to just a quick comment here of sorts.
Method must be equal to a string of say, post or get or patch and so on.
That's what we're going to assume.
So look up the appropriate method.
And I will send off the request.
I will put in the URL and the body.
So now if the request occurs successfully, let's take the data out of this response and return it.
So I will return response data.
Otherwise, if something goes wrong with the request.
So if we end up in this catch block right here, let's take the error that occurred.
We're going to turn it into some X block that essentially looks very similar to what we did back down
here.
And we're going to set our ears piece of state with that.
So I'm going to call inside of your set ears.
And then inside there, we're going to write out the same exact style of jokes that we just put together
back inside of our sign up component.
As a matter of fact, it's going to be so similar.
I'm just going to copy that div right there or cut it.
Go back over to use request and paste it inside of set errors.
I'll then make sure that I update this Aires variable right here so we don't have any errors variable
anymore.
Instead, we call the error in this case simply error.
And if you recall that error, if we go back up a little bit.
There's early responders.
So that's what we want to map over.
It will do.
A map right here over Iraq.
Response data airs like so.
Okay.
So I think this is enough to start to test out.
Now, if the code that we have inside of you right now is confusing, don't sweat it.
As soon as we start to make use of it, I think you'll get a good idea of how this thing is working.
I'm going to save this file.
I'm going to go back over to sign up as.
I'm going to import.
That use request.
From up one directory actually up to directories.
Books use request.
All right.
This video is running just a little bit long.
So how about we just take a quick pause right here.
Come back the next video and see how we actually make use of this hook.